= Fractional

Fractional is a library for parsing, representing and operating on fractions.

=== Conversions

Convert fractional strings to floats:
 Fractional.new("1100 7/8").to_f #=> 1100.875

Convert floats to fractional strings:
 Fractional.new(1100.875).to_s   #=> "1100 7/8"
 Fractional.new(1100.875, :to_nearest => "1/2").to_s #=> "1101"

Convert to human-friendly fractions
 Fractional.new(-1.331, :to_human).to_s #=> "-1 1/3"

Also does a great job of guessing repeating decimal values:
 Fractional.new(0.33333).to_s    #=> "1/3"
 Fractional.new(3.142857142857).to_s    #=> "22/7"
If you want to prevent this "guesswork" pass the :exact option
 Fractional.new(0.33333, exact: true).to_s  #=> "33333/100000"

It can render back out mixed numbers:
 Fractional.new(1.45).to_s  #=> "29/20"
 Fractional.new(1.45).to_s( mixed_number: true )  #=> "1 9/20"


=== Math and Comparisons
It will integrate nicely with Numerics:
 a = Fractional.new("3/4")
 puts a + 1.5   #=>  "9/4"

And you can compare it to other Numerics:
 puts Fractional.new("3/4") > -2.3    #=> true

=== Rounding

Round a value to the nearest fraction:
 Fractional.round_to_nearest_fraction("1100 1/7", "1/64")           #=> "1100 9/64"
 Fractional.round_to_nearest_fraction(1100.142857142857143, "1/64") #=> 1100.140625

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests

* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Special thanks
Thanks to Jannis Harder for his hardcore float to rational method I nicked from http://markmail.org/message/nqgrsmaixwbrvsno

= Contributors
Joey Aghion https://github.com/joeyAghion

muff1nman https://github.com/muff1nman


== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2009-2013 Chris O'Sullivan. See LICENSE for details.
